IRP split page changes (#4086)
DFE-Digital/get-into-teaching-app: app/views/content/non-uk-teachers/get-an-international-relocation-payment.md

inset_text:
  applications-open:
    text: |-

> 

Author: ```suggestion
Applications are closed. You can apply for the international relocation payment (IRP) between 30 September 2024 and the end of March 2025. We will update this page with a link to the application form when it is live.

```

      <h2>Changes to eligibility and payment for trainees</h2>

>       <p>Trainees who train to teach in the 2024 to 2025 academic year are no longer eligible for the IRP. This applies to all trainees who started courses from 1 July 2024 onwards. Trainees in languages or physics are still eligible to get a bursary or apply for a scholarship worth up to <a href="/funding-and-support/scholarships-and-bursaries">get a bursary or apply for a scholarship</a> worth up to $scholarships_nonuk_max$.</p>

Reviewer: This paragraph still doesn't make sense?

>       <p>Trainees who train to teach in the 2024 to 2025 academic year are no longer eligible for the IRP. This applies to all trainees who started courses from 1 July 2024 onwards. Trainees in languages or physics are still eligible to get a bursary or apply for a scholarship worth up to <a href="/funding-and-support/scholarships-and-bursaries">get a bursary or apply for a scholarship</a> worth up to $scholarships_nonuk_max$.</p>

Author: ```suggestion
      <p>Trainees who train to teach in the 2024 to 2025 academic year are no longer eligible for the IRP. This applies to all trainees who started courses from 1 July 2024 onwards. Trainees in languages or physics are still eligible to <a href="/funding-and-support/scholarships-and-bursaries">get a bursary or apply for a scholarship</a> worth up to $scholarships_nonuk_max$.</p>
```

>       <h2>Changes to eligibility and payment for teachers</h2>

Reviewer: The headings are much better now - are you able to get a blank line between the two sections though?

![Uploading image.png…]()

>       <h2>Changes to eligibility and payment for teachers</h2>

Author: ```suggestion

      <h2>Changes to eligibility and payment for teachers</h2>
```

>       <p>Eligible teachers will receive an IRP of up to £10,000, in 2 instalments of £5,000 spread over 2 years. Teachers must make separate applications for each year showing they meet the eligibility requirements to receive each instalment. Learn more about applying for the IRP.</p>

Author: ```suggestion
      <p>Eligible teachers will receive an IRP of up to £10,000, in 2 instalments of £5,000 spread over 2 years. Teachers must make separate applications for each year showing they meet the eligibility requirements to receive each instalment.</p>
```

inset_text:
  applications-open:
    text: |-

>       <h3>Changes to eligibility and payment</h3>

Reviewer: Page starts with an h3 which is odd? But this is in the inset text - I'm not sure we can use headings here in this way?

Author: I wasn't sure if it was something to do with it being in the inset box?

Reviewer: It looks like headings work in the inset box

However, we can't jump from an h1 to an h3 - that is an accessibility fail

I've tried restyling as an h2 and it doesn't look good - the h2 is styled smaller than then h3 in this inset component
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/dca5a277-44ec-4421-b754-ce37a5706e8d)

I think we need to find a pragmatic solution that enables us to get this out but making sure it is accessible?

Author: Do we need the top current h2? Then we could have the two existing h3s as h2s?

Reviewer: good idea!

Reviewer: you will need to add another h2 below the inset box either way otherwise this info would sit until the h2 in the inset box?

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/84af0528-0373-4528-84bc-d799ff99ee25)

      <h4>Changes to eligibility and payment for trainees</h4>

>       <p>Trainees who train to teach in the 2024 to 2025 academic year are no longer eligible for the IRP. This applies to all trainees who started courses from 1 July 2024 onwards. Trainees in languages or physics are still eligible to get a bursary or apply for a scholarship worth up to <a href="/funding-and-support/scholarships-and-bursaries">get a bursary or apply for a scholarship</a> worth up to $scholarships_nonuk_max$.</p>

Author: In the review app there's a full-stop after this opening para, but I can't see where it is here??

>       <p>Trainees who train to teach in the 2024 to 2025 academic year are no longer eligible for the IRP. This applies to all trainees who started courses from 1 July 2024 onwards. Trainees in languages or physics are still eligible to get a bursary or apply for a scholarship worth up to <a href="/funding-and-support/scholarships-and-bursaries">get a bursary or apply for a scholarship</a> worth up to $scholarships_nonuk_max$.</p>.

Reviewer: Duplicate wording in this sentence!

>       <p>Trainees who train to teach in the 2024 to 2025 academic year are no longer eligible for the IRP. This applies to all trainees who started courses from 1 July 2024 onwards. Trainees in languages or physics are still eligible to get a bursary or apply for a scholarship worth up to <a href="/funding-and-support/scholarships-and-bursaries">get a bursary or apply for a scholarship</a> worth up to $scholarships_nonuk_max$.</p>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      <p>Trainees who train to teach in the 2024 to 2025 academic year are no longer eligible for the IRP. This applies to all trainees who started courses from 1 July 2024 onwards. Trainees in languages or physics are still eligible to get a bursary or apply for a scholarship worth up to <a href="/funding-and-support/scholarships-and-bursaries">get a bursary or apply for a scholarship</a> worth up to $scholarships_nonuk_max$.</p>
```

>       <p>Trainees who train to teach in the 2024 to 2025 academic year are no longer eligible for the IRP. This applies to all trainees who started courses from 1 July 2024 onwards. Trainees in languages or physics are still eligible to get a bursary or apply for a scholarship worth up to <a href="/funding-and-support/scholarships-and-bursaries">get a bursary or apply for a scholarship</a> worth up to $scholarships_nonuk_max$.</p>.

Author: ```suggestion
      <p>Trainees who train to teach in the 2024 to 2025 academic year are no longer eligible for the IRP. This applies to all trainees who started courses from 1 July 2024 onwards. Trainees in languages or physics are still eligible to <a href="/funding-and-support/scholarships-and-bursaries">get a bursary or apply for a scholarship</a> worth up to $scholarships_nonuk_max$.</p>.
```

Reviewer: @Sarah-DfE I think you still need to commit this change?

>       <h4>Changes to eligibility and payment for teachers</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      <h4>Changes to eligibility and payment for teachers</h4>
```

inset_text:
  applications-open:
    text: |-

> Applications are closed. You can apply for the international relocation payment (IRP) between 30 September 2024 and the end of March 2025. We will update this page with a link to the application form when it is live.

Author: ```suggestion
<p>Applications are closed. You can apply for the international relocation payment (IRP) between 30 September 2024 and the end of March 2025. We will update this page with a link to the application form when it is live. </p>
```

> <p>Applications are closed. You can apply for the international relocation payment (IRP) between 30 September 2024 and the end of March 2025. We will update this page with a link to the application form when it is live.</p>

Author: ```suggestion
      <p>Applications are closed. You can apply for the international relocation payment (IRP) between 30 September 2024 and the end of March 2025. We will update this page with a link to the application form when it is live.</p>
```

> <p>Applications are closed. You can apply for the international relocation payment (IRP) between 30 September 2024 and the end of March 2025. We will update this page with a link to the application form when it is live. </p>

Author: ```suggestion
<p>Applications are closed. You can apply for the international relocation payment (IRP) between 30 September 2024 and the end of March 2025. We will update this page with a link to the application form when it is live.</p>
```

>       <h2>Changes to eligibility and payment</h2>

Author: ```suggestion
        <br>
        <h2>Changes to eligibility and payment</h2>
```

      <p>Trainees who train to teach in the 2024 to 2025 academic year are no longer eligible for the IRP. This applies to all trainees who started courses from 1 July 2024 onwards. Trainees in languages or physics are still eligible to <a href="/funding-and-support/scholarships-and-bursaries">get a bursary or apply for a scholarship</a> worth up to $scholarships_nonuk_max$.</p>

>       <p>Eligible teachers will receive an IRP of up to £10,000, in 2 instalments of £5,000 spread over 2 years. Teachers must make separate applications for each year showing they meet the eligibility requirements to receive each instalment.</p>

Author: ```suggestion
      <p>Eligible teachers will receive the IRP of up to £10,000, in 2 instalments of £5,000 spread over 2 years. Teachers must make separate applications for each year showing they meet the eligibility requirements to receive each instalment.</p>
```

inset_text:
  applications-open:
    text: |-
      <p>Applications are closed. You can apply for the international relocation payment (IRP) between 30 September 2024 and the end of March 2025. We will update this page with a link to the application form when it is live.</p>

        <br>
        <h2>Changes to eligibility and payment</h2>

      <p>Trainees who train to teach in the 2024 to 2025 academic year are no longer eligible for the IRP. This applies to all trainees who started courses from 1 July 2024 onwards. Trainees in languages or physics are still eligible to <a href="/funding-and-support/scholarships-and-bursaries">get a bursary or apply for a scholarship</a> worth up to $scholarships_nonuk_max$.</p>

> 

Author: ```suggestion
<br>
```

---
$applications-open$

## What the IRP is for

If you are a teacher considering moving to England to teach languages or physics, you could be eligible for an international relocation payment (IRP) from the UK government worth up to £10,000.

The IRP is designed to cover some of the costs of moving to England, including:

* the costs of visas

* the immigration health surcharge

* other relocation expenses

If you are eligible, you will receive a maximum IRP of £10,000, in 2 instalments of £5,000 spread over 2 years.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
If you received an IRP payment for the 2023 to 2024 academic year you cannot receive the IRP again.
```

The IRP is available whether you teach full-time or part-time.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
The IRP is a 2 year trial to support non-UK citizen who want to teach in England. 2024 to 2025 is the second year of the trial.
```

---
$applications-open$

## What the IRP is for

If you are a teacher considering moving to England to teach languages or physics, you could be eligible for an international relocation payment (IRP) from the UK government worth up to £10,000.

> The international relocation payment (IRP) is designed to cover some of the costs of moving to England, including:

Author: ```suggestion
The IRP is designed to cover some of the costs of moving to England, including:
```

---
$applications-open$

## What the IRP is for

If you are a teacher considering moving to England to teach languages or physics, you could be eligible for an international relocation payment (IRP) from the UK government worth up to £10,000.

The IRP is designed to cover some of the costs of moving to England, including:

* the costs of visas

* the immigration health surcharge

* other relocation expenses

You can apply for the IRP between September 2024 and March 2025. If you are eligible, you will receive a maximum IRP of £10,000, in 2 instalments of £5,000 spread over 2 years.

> The IRP is available whether you teach full-time or part-time.

Author: The IRP is a 2 year trial to support non-UK citizen who want to teach in England. 2024 to 2025 is the second year of the trial.

---
$applications-open$

> If you are a teacher considering moving to England to teach languages or physics, you could be eligible for an interntional relocation payment (IRP) from the UK government worth up to £10,000.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are a teacher considering moving to England to teach languages or physics, you could be eligible for an international relocation payment (IRP) from the UK government worth up to £10,000.
```

---
$applications-open$

## What the IRP is for

If you are a teacher considering moving to England to teach languages or physics, you could be eligible for an international relocation payment (IRP) from the UK government worth up to £10,000.

The IRP is designed to cover some of the costs of moving to England, including:

* the costs of visas

* the immigration health surcharge

* other relocation expenses

If you are eligible, you will receive a maximum IRP of £10,000, in 2 instalments of £5,000 spread over 2 years.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
If you received an IRP payment for the 2023 to 2024 academic year you cannot receive the IRP again.
```

> If you received an IRP payment for the 2023 to 2024 academic year you cannot receive the IRP again.

Author: ```suggestion
If you received the IRP payment for the 2023 to 2024 academic year you cannot receive the IRP again.
```

* other relocation expenses

You can apply for the IRP between September 2024 and March 2025. If you are eligible, you will receive a maximum IRP of £10,000, in 2 instalments of £5,000 spread over 2 years.

The IRP is available whether you teach full-time or part-time.

[Learn more about teaching in England if you trained outside the UK](/non-uk-teachers/teach-in-england-if-you-trained-overseas).

## Check your eligibility

To be eligible for the maximum IRP of £10,000, you must meet all the eligibility requirements when you apply for both the first and second instalments.

### Eligibility requirements for IRP instalment 1 (£5,000)

#### Teaching subject and school

You must be:
 
 * employed by and working in a state secondary school in England
 * on a contract of employment lasting at least 1 year

Your contract of employment must begin between 1 March 2024 and 1 May 2025.

> State schools are schools funded by the UK government. Secondary schools teach children aged 11 to 16 or 11 to 18. Schools for pupils aged 16 to 18 only are not eligible. Schools for pupils aged 5 to 18 are eligible, but you must teach the secondary age range (11 to 16 or 11 to 18).

Reviewer: Need a new paragraph here (blank line above?) to separate from contract of employement sentence

Reviewer: I still think this is hard to read mashed together - wasn't sure if you disagree or had made a change?

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0928efc9-49dd-46d6-a29f-6c7931ab92de)

> State schools are schools funded by the UK government. Secondary schools teach children aged 11 to 16 or 11 to 18. Schools for pupils aged 16 to 18 only are not eligible. Schools for pupils aged 5 to 18 are eligible, but you must teach the secondary age range (11 to 16 or 11 to 18).

Reviewer: I don't find this very easy to read re `aged 11 to 16 or 11 to 18` (and the following sentences too). Is it possible to reword? Add in `years old` (or however we style it) to break up the numbers?

> State schools are schools funded by the UK government. Secondary schools teach children aged 11 to 16 or 11 to 18. Schools for pupils aged 16 to 18 only are not eligible. Schools for pupils aged 5 to 18 are eligible, but you must teach the secondary age range (11 to 16 or 11 to 18).

Author: ```suggestion

State schools are schools funded by the UK government. Secondary schools teach children aged 11 to 16 or 11 to 18. Schools for pupils aged 16 to 18 only are not eligible. Schools for pupils aged 5 to 18 are eligible, but you must teach the secondary age range (11 to 16 or 11 to 18).
```

> State schools are schools funded by the UK government. Secondary schools teach children aged 11 to 16 or 11 to 18. Schools for pupils aged 16 to 18 only are not eligible. Schools for pupils aged 5 to 18 are eligible, but you must teach the secondary age range (11 to 16 or 11 to 18).

Author: ```suggestion
State schools are schools funded by the UK government. Secondary schools teach children aged 11 to 16 years old or 11 to 18 years old. Schools for pupils aged 16 to 18 years old only are not eligible. Schools for pupils aged 5 to 18 years old are eligible, but you must teach the secondary age range (11 to 16 years old or 11 to 18 years old).
```

* other relocation expenses

You can apply for the IRP between September 2024 and March 2025. If you are eligible, you will receive a maximum IRP of £10,000, in 2 instalments of £5,000 spread over 2 years.

The IRP is available whether you teach full-time or part-time.

[Learn more about teaching in England if you trained outside the UK](/non-uk-teachers/teach-in-england-if-you-trained-overseas).

## Check your eligibility

To be eligible for the maximum IRP of £10,000, you must meet all the eligibility requirements when you apply for both the first and second instalments.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

You will not be able to use eligibility for the IRP in your visa application as proof that you have enough money to support yourself.

```

### Eligibility requirements for IRP instalment 1 (£5,000)

#### Teaching subject and school

You must be:
 
 * employed by and working in a state secondary school in England
 * on a contract of employment lasting at least 1 year

> Your contract of employment must begin between 1 March 2024 and 1 May 2025.

Author: ```suggestion

Your contract of employment must begin between 1 March 2024 and 1 May 2025.
```

> State schools are schools funded by the UK government. Secondary schools teach children aged 11 to 16 years old or 11 to 18 years old. Schools for pupils aged 16 to 18 years old only are not eligible. Schools for pupils aged 5 to 18 years old are eligible, but you must teach the secondary age range (11 to 16 years old or 11 to 18 years old).

Reviewer: As before - are we able to split this out visually? Lines 106 and 107 look like one paragraph even though they are not
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/74865116-4eae-4e3b-a5ef-704f78623c5c)

[Check the type and age range of the school](https://www.get-information-schools.service.gov.uk) where you’ll be teaching to see if it meets our eligibility criteria. You can also find out about the [different types of state school in England](https://www.gov.uk/types-of-school).

> In your role in a school in England, you must be working as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your role in a school in England, you must be working as one of the following:
```
do we need to clarify here?

* Russian
* Spanish

> Teaching English is not classed as an eligible subject for the IRP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Teaching English is not classed as an eligible subject for the IRP.
```

You will not be eligible if you are:

* employed by a recruitment agency – an agency can find you a job in a school, but your contract must be with the school and your salary must be paid directly to you by the school, not by the recruitment agency

> * teaching in Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* teaching in Wales, Scotland or Northern Ireland
```
suggest re-ordering - we normally use this order and it is consistent with the bullet below

* a UK citizen, including citizens of Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland

* an Irish citizen

If you are unsure about meeting any of the eligibility requirements, email irp.mailbox@education.gov.uk for advice before planning your move.

#### Type of visa

You will need to come to England on a visa listed in this section to be eligible for IRP. You must have applied for your visa from outside the UK.

> Most teachers will need a Skilled Worker visa, other eligible visas are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most teachers will need a Skilled Worker visa. Other eligible visas are:
```

* Russian
* Spanish

Teaching English is not classed as an eligible subject for the IRP.

You will not be eligible if you are:

* employed by a recruitment agency – an agency can find you a job in a school, but your contract must be with the school and your salary must be paid directly to you by the school, not by the recruitment agency

* teaching in Wales, Scotland or Northern Ireland

* a UK citizen, including citizens of Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland

* an Irish citizen

If you are unsure about meeting any of the eligibility requirements, email irp.mailbox@education.gov.uk for advice before planning your move.

#### Type of visa

You will need to come to England on a visa listed in this section to be eligible for IRP. You must have applied for your visa from outside the UK.

> Most teachers will need a Skilled Worker visa. Other eligible visas are:

Reviewer: this doesn't make sense to say `Other eligible visas` and then lead with `Skilled Worker visa`?

```suggestion
Most teachers will need a Skilled Worker visa. Eligible visas are:
```

* Russian
* Spanish

Teaching English is not classed as an eligible subject for the IRP.

You will not be eligible if you are:

* employed by a recruitment agency – an agency can find you a job in a school, but your contract must be with the school and your salary must be paid directly to you by the school, not by the recruitment agency

* teaching in Wales, Scotland or Northern Ireland

* a UK citizen, including citizens of Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland

* an Irish citizen

If you are unsure about meeting any of the eligibility requirements, email irp.mailbox@education.gov.uk for advice before planning your move.

#### Type of visa

> You will need to come to England on a visa listed in this section to be eligible for IRP. You must have applied for your visa from outside the UK.

Author: ```suggestion
You will need to come to England on a visa listed in this section to be eligible for the IRP. You must have applied for your visa from outside the UK.
```

You travel to attend an interview for an eligible teaching job in the UK under a Standard Visitor visa in May 2024. The visit lasts 2 days and you return home, and learn you have been successful in your application. The role begins in September 2024. You apply for a Skilled Worker visa in June 2024, 3 months before your job begins. You move to the UK in July 2024.

You will be eligible for the first instalment of IRP, because you have spent less than 90 days in the UK in the previous 12 months and have moved to the UK less than 3 months before the start of your teaching job.

#### Example 3:

You study in the UK on a Student visa for three years from September 2019 to July 2022, before returning home. You apply for an eligible teaching job in England starting in September 2024. You apply for a Skilled Worker visa in June 2024, 3 months before the start of your job. You move to the UK in July 2024.

> You will be eligible for the first installment of IRP because you have spent less than 90 days in the UK in the previous 12 months and have moved to the UK less than 3 months before the start of your job.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will be eligible for the first instalment of IRP because you have spent less than 90 days in the UK in the previous 12 months and have moved to the UK less than 3 months before the start of your job.
```

### Eligibility requirements for IRP instalment 2 (£5,000)

To get the second instalment of the IRP, you must meet all the eligibility requirements set out in this section.

#### Teaching subject and school

To be eligible for the second instalment of the IRP, you must:

> * have worked as a teacher for the previous year, that is, 3 consecutive terms

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* have worked as a teacher for the previous year (3 consecutive terms)
```
I find the `that is` a bit confusing - is there a better way of doing this? But ignore if needed!

Reviewer: is it worth saying academic terms? is this a common term that non-UK citizens would understand?

Author: I'll change to your suggestion as this reads much better (have tweaked slightly), will need to check with policy as Amy said it needed to be worded in a certain way.

> * have worked as a teacher for the previous year, that is, 3 consecutive terms

Author: ```suggestion
* have worked as a teacher for the previous year (for 3 consecutive academic terms)
```

* be contracted to work as a teacher for at least another year

> * be teaching in a subject and school which meets the requirements for the first instalment, as set out on this page

Reviewer: `as set out on this page` sound a bit jargony - can we say `as detailed on this page` (or something better)?

> * be teaching in a subject and school which meets the requirements for the first instalment, as set out on this page

Author: ```suggestion
* be teaching in a subject and school which meets the requirements for the first instalment, as detailed on this page
```

* have successfully applied for and received the first instalment of the IRP

Your term time employment must be continuous, unless you [take time off work for statutory leave](https://www.gov.uk/browse/employing-people/time-off) take time off work for statutory leave, such as parental leave or sick leave.

> The Department for Education (DfE) will review time taken off for any other reasons on a case-by-case basis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Department for Education (DfE) will review time taken off for any other reason on a case-by-case basis.
```

You can move between eligible schools and remain eligible for the second instalment (see example 1).

You can start midway through the academic year and as long as you complete 3 full terms, you will remain eligible for the second instalment (see example 2).

Any term time employment gaps will make you ineligible for the second instalment (see example 3).

#### Example 1

> You start your first eligible teaching job in England in September 2024 and successfully apply for the first instalment of the IRP. You work a full academic year of 3 terms, leaving the school in July 2025. You successfully apply for a new IRP eligible teaching job on a one-year contract starting in September 2025. You visit family overseas for the summer holidays and return to England to take up your teaching job and apply for the second instalment of the IRP. You are eligible for the second instalment of the IRP because you have been continuously employed as a teacher in eligible schools. 

Reviewer: All of the examples are quite long - is it worth breaking them up into separate paragraphs?

> You start your first eligible teaching job in England in September 2024 and successfully apply for the first instalment of the IRP. You work a full academic year of 3 terms, leaving the school in July 2025. You successfully apply for a new IRP eligible teaching job on a one-year contract starting in September 2025. You visit family overseas for the summer holidays and return to England to take up your teaching job and apply for the second instalment of the IRP. You are eligible for the second instalment of the IRP because you have been continuously employed as a teacher in eligible schools. 

Author: ```suggestion
You start your first eligible teaching job in England in September 2024 and successfully apply for the first instalment of the IRP.  You work a full academic year of 3 terms, leaving the school in July 2025. 

You successfully apply for a new IRP eligible teaching job on a one-year contract starting in September 2025. You visit family overseas for the summer holidays and return to England to take up your teaching job and apply for the second instalment of the IRP. 

You are eligible for the second instalment of the IRP because you have been continuously employed as a teacher in eligible schools. 
```

#### Example 2
You arrive in the UK in September 2024 on a Youth Mobility Scheme visa. You are employed as a teacher on a contract lasting 2 academic years and successfully apply for the first instalment of the IRP. Early in 2025, your partner moves to the UK on a Skilled Worker visa lasting 3 years. You visit family overseas during the summer holidays. As your Youth Mobility Scheme visa is limited to 2 years, you decide to apply to join your partner as a dependant on their visa instead. You return to the UK to continue your employment in September 2025 on a dependant visa. You are not eligible for the second instalment of the IRP as the dependant visa does not appear on the list of eligible visas on this page.

## How to apply for the international relocation payment (IRP)

We will update this page with a link to the application form when it is live.

Before you apply for the first and second instalments of the IRP, you’ll need to check you meet the eligibility requirements.

> Applications are open from 30 September 2024 to end of March 2025

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Applications are open from 30 September 2024 to end of March 2025.
```

> If you start your teaching job between 1 March 2024 and 28 February 2025 you should apply between 30 September 2024 and the end of March 2025. If you are eligible, you should receive the money following successful completion of our eligibility checks.You must apply between 30 September 2024 and the end of March 2025 to remain eligible.

Reviewer: This is really hard to read - can it be split into two paras?

> If you start your teaching job between 1 March 2024 and 28 February 2025 you should apply between 30 September 2024 and the end of March 2025. If you are eligible, you should receive the money following successful completion of our eligibility checks.You must apply between 30 September 2024 and the end of March 2025 to remain eligible.

Author: ```suggestion
If you start your teaching job between 1 March 2024 and 28 February 2025 you should apply between 30 September 2024 and the end of March 2025. 

If you are eligible, you should receive the money following successful completion of our eligibility checks. You must apply between 30 September 2024 and the end of March 2025 to remain eligible.
```

## DfE eligibility requirements for IRP instalments

### First instalment of IRP

DfE will check you meet the eligibility requirements for the first instalment of IRP by validating your application with:

> * [UK Visas and Immigration](https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/uk-visas-and-immigration) 

Reviewer: Is this link needed? One for policy

Author: Will check with Amy but agree, it's confusing to have both

> * the school where you are employed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* the school where you are employed
```

If your eligibility checks are successful, you will get the first instalment of £5,000. 

### Second instalment of IRP

At the start of your second year of employment as a teacher, apply for the second instalment of the IRP. To get the second instalment of the IRP, you will need to have:

* made a successful claim for the first instalment

* completed 3 consecutive terms of employment as a teacher

Applications for the second instalment are open from September 2025 to March 2026.

> The Department for Education will validate your application with [UK Visas and Immigration](https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/uk-visas-and-immigration) and the school or schools where you have worked since applying for the first instalment of the IRP. If you meet the eligibility requirements for the second instalment set out on this page, you should receive the second instalment of £5,000 following successful completion of our eligibility checks. 

Reviewer: Again, do we need this link? If we do need this link on this page, we should only include it once for accessibility reasons

### IRP application deadlines

If you take up your first teaching job in England after March 2025 and miss the deadline to apply for the first instalment of the IRP, you can apply when applications reopen in autumn 2025.

If you complete 3 terms of employment as a teacher after March 2026, missing the deadline for the second instalment of the IRP, you can apply when applications reopen in autumn 2026.

DfE cannot process late applications for the IRP. If you fail to apply during the correct time period, DfE will not process your application. 

> ##General information about the international relocation payment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## General information about the international relocation payment
```

Reviewer: Is it worth rewording this heading? `General information` is not a great phrase!

#### Example 3:

You study in the UK on a Student visa for three years from September 2019 to July 2022, before returning home. You apply for an eligible teaching job in England starting in September 2024. You apply for a Skilled Worker visa in June 2024, 3 months before the start of your job. You move to the UK in July 2024.

You will be eligible for the first instalment of IRP because you have spent less than 90 days in the UK in the previous 12 months and have moved to the UK less than 3 months before the start of your job.

### Eligibility requirements for IRP instalment 2 (£5,000)

To get the second instalment of the IRP, you must meet all the eligibility requirements set out in this section.

#### Teaching subject and school

To be eligible for the second instalment of the IRP, you must:

* have worked as a teacher for the previous year (3 consecutive terms)

* be contracted to work as a teacher for at least another year

* be teaching in a subject and school which meets the requirements for the first instalment, as detailed on this page

* have successfully applied for and received the first instalment of the IRP

> Your term time employment must be continuous, unless you [take time off work for statutory leave](https://www.gov.uk/browse/employing-people/time-off) take time off work for statutory leave, such as parental leave or sick leave.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your term time employment must be continuous, unless you [take time off work for statutory leave](https://www.gov.uk/browse/employing-people/time-off), such as parental leave or sick leave.
```

#### Example 2
You start your first teaching job in England in January 2025 and successfully apply for the first instalment of the IRP, working for the rest of that academic year of 2 terms. 

You decide to stay on at the school and return after the summer holidays in September 2025. Your contract is extended for a further year, and you apply for the second instalment of the IRP after the end of your third term of employment in January 2025. 

You are eligible for the second instalment of the IRP because you have been continuously employed as a teacher and have a contract for further 12 months.

#### Example 3
You start a teaching job in England in January 2025 and successfully apply for the first instalment of the IRP in your first term. 

You continue to work at the school for a total of 3 terms, leaving in December 2025. However, you do not find a new teaching job until March 2026. Because there is a gap (December 2025 to March 2026) between your 2 jobs that is not covered by any statutory leave, you will not be eligible for the second instalment of the IRP because you have not been in continuous employment as a teacher. 

> ### Type of visa

Reviewer: I think this should be an h4 not an h3?

```suggestion
#### Type of visa
```

You apply for the second instalment of the IRP in September 2025. You remain eligible because the Youth Mobility Scheme visa and the Skilled Worker visa are on the list of eligible visas on this page. 

#### Example 2
You arrive in the UK in September 2024 on a Youth Mobility Scheme visa. You are employed as a teacher on a contract lasting 2 academic years and successfully apply for the first instalment of the IRP. 

Early in 2025, your partner moves to the UK on a Skilled Worker visa lasting 3 years. You visit family overseas during the summer holidays. As your Youth Mobility Scheme visa is limited to 2 years, you decide to apply to join your partner as a dependant on their visa instead. You return to the UK to continue your employment in September 2025 on a dependant visa.

You are not eligible for the second instalment of the IRP as the dependant visa does not appear on the list of eligible visas on this page.

> ## How to apply for the international relocation payment (IRP)

Author: ```suggestion
## How to apply for the IRP
```

We will update this page with a link to the application form when it is live.

Before you apply for the first and second instalments of the IRP, you’ll need to check you meet the eligibility requirements.

Applications are open from 30 September 2024 to end of March 2025.

If you start your teaching job between 1 March 2024 and 28 February 2025 you should apply between 30 September 2024 and the end of March 2025. 

If you are eligible, you should receive the money following successful completion of our eligibility checks. You must apply between 30 September 2024 and the end of March 2025 to remain eligible.

## DfE eligibility requirements for IRP instalments

> ### First instalment of IRP

Author: ```suggestion
### First instalment of the IRP
```

DfE will check you meet the eligibility requirements for the first instalment of IRP by validating your application with:

* [UK Visas and Immigration](https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/uk-visas-and-immigration) 

* the school where you are employed

If your eligibility checks are successful, you will get the first instalment of £5,000. 

> ### Second instalment of IRP

Author: ```suggestion
### Second instalment of the IRP
```

> At the start of your second year of employment as a teacher, apply for the second instalment of the IRP. To get the second instalment of the IRP, you will need to have:

Author: ```suggestion
At the start of your second year of employment as a teacher, apply for the second instalment of the IRP. 

To get the second instalment of the IRP, you will need to have:
```

Early in 2025, your partner moves to the UK on a Skilled Worker visa lasting 3 years. You visit family overseas during the summer holidays. As your Youth Mobility Scheme visa is limited to 2 years, you decide to apply to join your partner as a dependant on their visa instead. You return to the UK to continue your employment in September 2025 on a dependant visa.

You are not eligible for the second instalment of the IRP as the dependant visa does not appear on the list of eligible visas on this page.

## How to apply for the IRP

We will update this page with a link to the application form when it is live.

Before you apply for the first and second instalments of the IRP, you’ll need to check you meet the eligibility requirements.

Applications are open from 30 September 2024 to end of March 2025.

If you start your teaching job between 1 March 2024 and 28 February 2025 you must apply between 30 September 2024 and the end of March 2025 to remain eligible. 

If you are eligible, you should receive the money following successful completion of our eligibility checks.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
## Future application windows for IRPs

Applications will open again from 30 September 2025 to end of March 2026.

If you start your teaching job between 1 April 2025 and 31 May 2025, you can apply when applications re-open in September 2025.

If you start your teaching job in March 2025, you can either apply before applications close at the end of March 2025 or when they open again in September 2025.  

You can apply for IRP instalment 2 once you have completed 3 full terms teaching.

DfE cannot process late applications for the IRP. If you do not apply during the correct time period, DfE will not process your application.
```

To get the second instalment of the IRP, you will need to have:

* made a successful claim for the first instalment

* completed 3 consecutive terms of employment as a teacher

Applications for the second instalment are open from September 2025 to March 2026.

The Department for Education will validate your application with [UK Visas and Immigration](https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/uk-visas-and-immigration) and the school or schools where you have worked since applying for the first instalment of the IRP. If you meet the eligibility requirements for the second instalment set out on this page, you should receive the second instalment of £5,000 following successful completion of our eligibility checks. 

If you complete 3 terms of employment as a teacher after March 2026, missing the deadline for the second instalment of the IRP, you can apply when applications reopen in autumn 2026.

## Receiving the IRP payments

You can only apply for your first instalment of the IRP when you start your teaching job. This is because eligibility requirement checks can only be completed after you’ve arrived in England.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
You can apply for the second IRP instalment once you have completed consecutive terms of employment as a teacher which will be from September 2025 at the earliest.
```

Early in 2025, your partner moves to the UK on a Skilled Worker visa lasting 3 years. You visit family overseas during the summer holidays. As your Youth Mobility Scheme visa is limited to 2 years, you decide to apply to join your partner as a dependant on their visa instead. You return to the UK to continue your employment in September 2025 on a dependant visa.

You are not eligible for the second instalment of the IRP as the dependant visa does not appear on the list of eligible visas on this page.

## How to apply for the IRP

We will update this page with a link to the application form when it is live.

Before you apply for the first and second instalments of the IRP, you’ll need to check you meet the eligibility requirements.

Applications are open from 30 September 2024 to end of March 2025.

If you start your teaching job between 1 March 2024 and 28 February 2025 you should apply between 30 September 2024 and the end of March 2025. 

If you are eligible, you should receive the money following successful completion of our eligibility checks. You must apply between 30 September 2024 and the end of March 2025 to remain eligible.

> 

Author: ### Future application windows for IRPs

Applications will open again from 30 September 2025 to end of March 2026.  

If you start your teaching job between 1 April 2025 and 31 May 2025, you can apply when applications re-open in September 2025. 

If you start your teaching job in March 2025, you can either apply before applications close at the end of March 2025 or when they open again in September 2025.   

You can apply for IRP instalment 2 once you have completed 3 full terms teaching. 

DfE cannot process late applications for the IRP. If you do not apply during the correct time period, DfE will not process your application.

## DfE eligibility requirements for IRP instalments

### First instalment of the IRP

DfE will check you meet the eligibility requirements for the first instalment of IRP by validating your application with:

* [UK Visas and Immigration](https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/uk-visas-and-immigration) 

* the school where you are employed

If your eligibility checks are successful, you will get the first instalment of £5,000. 

### Second instalment of the IRP

> At the start of your second year of employment as a teacher, apply for the second instalment of the IRP. 

Author: ```suggestion
At the start of your second year of employment as a teacher, you will need to apply for the second instalment of the IRP. 
```

To get the second instalment of the IRP, you will need to have:

* made a successful claim for the first instalment

* completed 3 consecutive terms of employment as a teacher

Applications for the second instalment are open from September 2025 to March 2026.

The Department for Education will validate your application with [UK Visas and Immigration](https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/uk-visas-and-immigration) and the school or schools where you have worked since applying for the first instalment of the IRP. If you meet the eligibility requirements for the second instalment set out on this page, you should receive the second instalment of £5,000 following successful completion of our eligibility checks. 

> ### IRP application deadlines

Author: ```suggestion

```

> If you take up your first teaching job in England after March 2025 and miss the deadline to apply for the first instalment of the IRP, you can apply when applications reopen in autumn 2025.

Author: ```suggestion

```

> If you complete 3 terms of employment as a teacher after March 2026, missing the deadline for the second instalment of the IRP, you can apply when applications reopen in autumn 2026.

Author: ```suggestion
If you complete 3 terms of employment as a teacher after March 2026, missing the deadline for the second instalment of the IRP, you can apply when applications reopen in autumn 2026.
```

> DfE cannot process late applications for the IRP. If you fail to apply during the correct time period, DfE will not process your application. 

Author: ```suggestion

```

## Receiving the IRP payments

> You will not be paid your first instalment of the IRP before you start your teaching job. This is because eligibility requirement checks can only be completed after you’ve arrived in England.

Author: ```suggestion
You can only apply for your first instalment of the IRP when you start your teaching job. This is because eligibility requirement checks can only be completed after you’ve arrived in England.
```

> 

Author: You can apply for the second IRP instalment once you have completed consecutive terms of employment as a teacher which will be from September 2025 at the earliest.

> If your eligibility checks are successful you'll get the second instalment of the IRP at the start of your second year of employment. 

Author: ```suggestion

```

Early in 2025, your partner moves to the UK on a Skilled Worker visa lasting 3 years. You visit family overseas during the summer holidays. As your Youth Mobility Scheme visa is limited to 2 years, you decide to apply to join your partner as a dependant on their visa instead. You return to the UK to continue your employment in September 2025 on a dependant visa.

You are not eligible for the second instalment of the IRP as the dependant visa does not appear on the list of eligible visas on this page.

## How to apply for the IRP

We will update this page with a link to the application form when it is live.

Before you apply for the first and second instalments of the IRP, you’ll need to check you meet the eligibility requirements.

Applications are open from 30 September 2024 to end of March 2025.

If you start your teaching job between 1 March 2024 and 28 February 2025 you must apply between 30 September 2024 and the end of March 2025 to remain eligible. 

If you are eligible, you should receive the money following successful completion of our eligibility checks.

> ## Future application windows for IRPs

Author: ```suggestion
### Future application windows for IRPs
```

You will not be able to use eligibility for the IRP in your visa application as proof that you have enough money to support yourself.

> ### Receiving payments

Reviewer: This section is really lengthy - can it be broken up with sub-headings maybe?

It also jumps around from receiving the payment to needing a bank account to receiving the payment - is it worth reordering?

Author: Have reordered, not 100% sure I've done it right so will check after commits!

You will not be paid your first instalment of the IRP before you start your teaching job. This is because eligibility requirement checks can only be completed after you’ve arrived in England.

If your eligibility checks are successful you'll get the second instalment of the IRP at the start of your second year of employment. 

> To be paid the IRP, you must have a UK bank account in your name (this can be digital). The IRP cannot be paid into a building society account.

Author: ```suggestion

```

> You must also have a [UK National Insurance number](https://www.gov.uk/apply-national-insurance-number). You can apply for this once you arrive in England, as long as your visa gives you the right to work and you have a confirmed job.

Author: ```suggestion

```

> You’ll be paid the first and second instalments of the IRP after your eligibility checks are completed. We cannot guarantee an exact payment date.

Author: ```suggestion
You’ll be paid the first and second instalments of the IRP after your eligibility checks are completed. We cannot guarantee an exact payment date.

To be paid the IRP, you must have a UK bank account in your name (this can be digital). The IRP cannot be paid into a building society account.

You must also have a [UK National Insurance number](https://www.gov.uk/apply-national-insurance-number). You can apply for this once you arrive in England, as long as your visa gives you the right to work and you have a confirmed job.
```

You will not have to provide any evidence of the relocation costs you have incurred.

If your details, such as your address, change after you have applied, let us know as soon as possible to avoid any delay to your payment.

DfE can withhold the first and or second instalments of the IRP if you no longer meet eligibility requirements or we discover an error. 

DfE can take back any IRP payments that have been made to an ineligible applicant.

You cannot reapply for the IRP in following years if you leave the UK and then return. This applies even if you previously only received the first instalment.

### Tax and the IRP

> The DfE will pay the UK tax owed on the IRP to ensure you receive the full £10,000, as long as your overall earnings do not exceed £50,270 in the year you receive the IRP. You may have to pay higher rate [UK Income Tax](https://www.gov.uk/browse/tax/income-tax) on any earnings which take you over £50,270.

Reviewer: I will change these amounts to variables in a separate PR

You’ll be paid the first and second instalments of the IRP after your eligibility checks are completed. We cannot guarantee an exact payment date.

To be paid the IRP, you must have a UK bank account in your name (this can be digital). The IRP cannot be paid into a building society account.

You must also have a [UK National Insurance number](https://www.gov.uk/apply-national-insurance-number). You can apply for this once you arrive in England, as long as your visa gives you the right to work and you have a confirmed job.

You will not have to provide any evidence of the relocation costs you have incurred.

If your details, such as your address, change after you have applied, let us know as soon as possible to avoid any delay to your payment.

DfE can withhold the first and or second instalments of the IRP if you no longer meet eligibility requirements or we discover an error. 

DfE can take back any IRP payments that have been made to an ineligible applicant.

You cannot reapply for the IRP in following years if you leave the UK and then return. This applies even if you previously only received the first instalment.

### Tax and the IRP

> The DfE will pay the UK tax owed on the IRP to ensure you receive the full £10,000, as long as your overall earnings do not exceed £50,270 in the year you receive the IRP. You may have to pay higher rate [UK Income Tax](https://www.gov.uk/browse/tax/income-tax) on any earnings which take you over £50,270.

Author: ```suggestion
DfE will pay the UK tax owed on the IRP to ensure you receive the full £10,000, as long as your overall earnings do not exceed £50,270 in the year you receive the IRP. You may have to pay higher rate [UK Income Tax](https://www.gov.uk/browse/tax/income-tax) on any earnings which take you over £50,270.
```

### Other types of financial support from the UK government

Teachers who meet the eligibility requirements can also apply for the following payments in addition to the IRP:

* [the levelling up premium payment](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/levelling-up-premium-payments-for-teachers)
* [early career payments](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/early-career-payments-guidance-for-teachers-and-schools)

You cannot receive both the levelling up premium payment and the early career payment in the same year.

## Contact us

> For help with the international relocation payment, email teach.inengland@education.gov.uk.

Author: ```suggestion
For help with the IRP email teach.inengland@education.gov.uk.
```
